---
title: Arrival
subtitle: The Founding of Vukcasfikod
summary: Tale of our arrival and first few months.
prose: true
date: 0700-01-15
---

Our troop of dwarves left the mountain home and search of a new start and a solid foundation for the continuation of their civilization. They weren't the only group of dwarves to leave home but they were the only group to survive all the way to their destination. This group chose the farthest destination it's at the southern tip of the western continent, a very long distance way from home. Their journey took half of the year they arrived just after finishing a grueling travel through the winter months. In their home territory *add a territory name here* the winters are very mild, but down this far south it gets freezing cold and snows during winter, so as our doors arrive at the end of winter, the snow still covers the ground although it is just beginning to melt as they decide to stop the wagon and begin setting up a new home.

It becomes clear that the best way to survive a cold winter is to be deep underground, so the priority becomes we need to get some pics I need to dig down into the ground and we need to add a little fenced in livestock area for livestock up top. We brought along two varieties of poultry and had two female oxen pulling the cart, so we should be able to get a good supply of eggs poultry and milk after we get some infrastructure set up. 

The area surrounding are fort has a lot of fruit trees so we'll try to take advantage of that this summer and fall. Also when we arrived there were some giant kestrels and it would be pretty interesting if we were able to tame some of them to uses another renewable food source. There's a pleasant stream that runs through this area which is going to be convenient source of fresh water in the summer months but come winter we should make sure we have a well-established. 

We hastily begin setting up a smeltery and a forge since it was easier to pack some raw ore and an anvil instead of packing a bunch of loose tools. We Begin smelting some bronze and we quickly make a half dozen bronze pickaxes and a couple axes. A few of the non fruit bearing trees we cut down and we begin digging a ramp down into the Earth. It only takes a few z levels before we run into an aquifer, but thankfully it's a light aquifer. We're able to dig out an open area and put up some wooden walls along the edges to prevent water from seeping in. Not sure if this will offend any visitors but It will keep us dry. We continue the ramp down a couple layers into the first stone area and then dig out a large holding area to use as a temporary storage pile.

We also decide it makes the most sense to build a trap corridor at the bottom of the ramp so that we can keep this fort defended quite easily from underground. We also decide that it'd be nice to have our own rooms especially since we've been stuck sleeping in the open next to each other the entire trip. So we dig eight rooms off of the storage area and make some beds that we used to have some bare bones bedrooms for the time being.

We decide that we also need to get these birds into a contained area so we dig out a couple hen houses to be able to store the birds and also separate them for some reason I may not be necessary now that I have to say it out loud//// we use part of the storage room to build a Mason workshop and a craft door shop just to begin making some doors tables chairs and of course nest boxes. You want to set up a dining room down here in the main area to use as a meeting spot instead of the wagon out in the open. 

Spring is just finishing and the storage area stuck out for hard at work getting doors tables and chairs put in to make it livable down here and soon we'll take apart the wagon and move all the supplies into the actual fort. Our plan for the rest of the summer is to build a fence around our livestock up on the surface, build a few farm plots just under the surface for plump helmets and other crops that do well underground, to set up some fruit harvesting from the trees and to gather local plants and vegetables and fruits, and to set up kitchen and build a drawbridge to seal the main entryway into the fort to force any unwelcome visitors to use the trap hallway. 

We may also build a trade Depot but without much to trade with I probably won't do us any good this year, but we will send word back to the mountain home that we've arrived and we have dug in and things are starting off well enough. Maybe that will encourage them to send some more words to us many hands make light work after all. Our ultimate goal is to have the royalty from the mountain home move here and basically become the new capital for our civilization. The history of our civilization basically is all the other dwarven civilizations warring with us and defeating us and taking over our fiefs
